---
layout: post
title: "Platform"
date:   2017-05-20 12:31:00
categories: jekyll update
---

What got you interested in DSA? What position are you running for? What skills do you have for that position? What is your platform for this position?

I am running for the position of Chair. I joined DSA because it is the only socialist group with the confidence and vision to actually win. No other socialist group possesses DSA's unique combination of commitment to results-oriented action, lively internal culture of education and debate, willingness to work inside and outside of existing political structures, and openness to newcomers.

Qualifications:
I will bring a number of skills and qualifications to this position. In November 2016, I initiated the original organizing of this chapter, and I've conducted communications with the National Office since.  I've reserved spaces for chapter meetings, social gatherings, and reading group meetings. I carried out the devolution process that allowed Denver to form its own chapter independent of the existing Boulder DSA. I attended all the planning meetings of the May Day coalition. I initiated our organizational contact with the Colorado Working Families Party. I am a member of the Electoral Committee, the Racial Justice Committee, and I participate in the DSA Reading Group. I organized DSA's presence at the recent CWA picket line.

(I wrote the code for the original Denver DSA website. I maintain the DSA Facebook page.)

Platform:
My vision for DSA: Denver is to continue to grow the organization as a social power independent of any political party, while continuing our engagement with electoral politics. For example, I'd like to orient DSA: Denver towards active labor solidarity (for example, DSA was the only socialist organization in Denver to join striking CWA workers last month). I will also continue to distinguish DSA as the friendliest socialist organization in Denver, a place where folks entirely new to radical politics can feel welcome. I'd also like us to continue our friendly relationships with established socialist groups in Denver, but I also plan to continue building up our relationships with newer progressive organizations such as the Working Families Party and Our Revolution.

Denver voted overwhelmingly for Bernie Sanders in 2016 and yet all the socialist organizations in town are exceptionally small. There is clearly an appetite for a more radical approach to politics that other socialist groups have failed to engage with. Other socialist groups in Denver have failed to grow because they have alienated potential allies through elitism, hostility to newcomers, and general unwillingness to meet people where they are. I believe that DSA can fill this niche and that I am the most qualified person to make it happen. Thank you.